okay I'm ready now for the last step
okay we've closed our revenue account
we've closed our expense accounts the
next account that we need to close is
that temporary account income summary
okay it's just a temporary account used
for this purpose only now let's take a
look at the income summary account look
at the income summary ledger at its
balance it has a credit balance of three
thousand three hundred and thirty
dollars can anybody anybody recognize
that number as anything that is your net
income should be because the 5511 here
was revenue the 2181 was expenses that
leaves revenue minus expenses net income
and you can verify that by going back to
your worksheet and looking at your net
income all right if that is the case if
the 33:30 and income summary represents
net income and we're going to close this
account have any idea what will close it
into go gets net income the owners
capital account okay so we're going to
we this has a credit balance so what do
I need to do to close it debit it so
we're going to make an entry another
closing entry dates the 31st
this time we're debiting income summary
and the amount is equal to net income
the balance of income summary at the
time it's ready to be closed is always
equal to net income now since that's net
income the person who gets that would be
the owner so we're going to transfer
that to Darlene Wong's capital account
remember a credit to the capital account
increases the capital account
so we've just increased her account
thirty three thirty three thousand three
hundred thirty dollars she has the right
to it she's the owner makes sense so
this has this entry is twofold it serves
to close income summary and transfer net
income to the owner okay one other can't
we want to close and that's the owners
drawing account if the owner withdraws
funds from the business he or she should
have to give them back to the business
and so that's the next thing that we
want to close is her drawing account now
if she went through anything
there are many months that go by in my
business that I never withdraw anything
in fact in the year of 2012 I've made
one owner draw I'm only drawing
withdrawing money one time for myself
but let's see what Darlene long did now
she had any withdrawals
yes she's withdrawal $2,100 so her
drawing account has a debit balance of
2,100 what will I do to close that
credit it where will the money come what
will we make up for it capital so I'm
going to credit drawing to close it and
I'm gonna take it out of the capital
account so I'm coming in here and
putting the date the 31st this is going
to decrease capital so it's a debit to
the capital account in the amount that
she withdrew $2,100 and then I will
credit the drawing account and that will
get that account closed out
so all we need to do now is post these
last two entries and we're done got one
other little step but we're not gonna
cover it today
all right so find your income summary
account and let's post this 33:30 debit
31st g for this is a debit of 3,330 when
two zeros out that account and I take
the account number three 30s
back to the journal and write it in now
I'll go to Darlene Wong's capital
account and I will give her this net
income of thirty three thirty so find
the capital account put in the date the
thirty first G for this is a credit of
three thousand three hundred and thirty
which will increase her capital balance
she gets she's got 6543 in the account
already we're gonna give her the net
income so we'll add that her new capital
balance is 98-73 so her worth in the
business at this point is 98-73 take
that three ten back to the journal and
write it in and then we've got to take
care of what she went through so I'm
going back to the capital with the 2100
debit that of course with she
withdrawals from the business that
decreases her wars in the business so I
will subtract and her new owner's equity
is seven thousand seven hundred and
seventy three then I take that three ten
account number back to the journal and
write it in and finally we're going to
close the drawing account with a credit
of 2,100
Ciro's outside account and I take that
3:20 account numbers back to the journal
and write again and with the exclusion
of one other little step that will we'll
learn tomorrow that takes care of into
fiscal period activities so we've got
all accounts corrected we've got these
accounts suggested and we've closed out
all the temporary accounts we're ready
to start a new fiscal theory